Adding new Security Advisories content to the Academy (#1714)
chainguard-dev/edu: content/chainguard/chainguard-images/working-with-images/security-advisories/how-chainguard-issues/index.md

---
title: "How Chainguard Issues Security Advisories"
linktitle: "Chainguard's Advisories"
aliases: 
type: "article"
description: "The life cycle of Chainguard-Issued Security Advisories"
date: 2024-07-26T18:09:12+00:00
lastmod: 2024-07-30T14:59:20+00:00
draft: false
tags: ["Overview", "Product", "Chainguard Images", "CVE"]
images: []
menu:
  docs:
    parent: "security-advisories"
weight: 020
toc: true
---

> When you scan a newly-built Chainguard Image with a vulnerability scanner, typically, no CVEs will be reported. However, as software packages age, more vulnerabilities are reported, and CVEs begin to accumulate in images. When this happens, Chainguard releases security advisories to communicate these vulnerabilities to downstream Images users.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you scan a newly-built Chainguard Image with a vulnerability scanner, typically, no CVEs will be reported. However, as software packages age, more vulnerabilities are reported and CVEs will begin to accumulate in images. When this happens, Chainguard releases security advisories to communicate these vulnerabilities to downstream Images users.
```

> Chainguard publishes its security advisories to a dedicated [Security Advisories page](https://images.chainguard.dev/security/) on its Images Registry. Here, you can find a complete listing of CVEs found in various Chainguard Images, including their CVE ID, affected packages, and vulnerability status. Essentially, these security advisories act as metadata for a security vulnerability.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Chainguard publishes its security advisories to a dedicated [Security Advisories page](https://images.chainguard.dev/security/) on its Images Directory. There, you can find a complete listing of CVEs found in various Chainguard Images, including their CVE ID, affected packages, and vulnerability status. Each advisory is built from the metadata of a given security vulnerability.
```

I lean on calling it the Directory, don't want to folks to confuse it with a regular registry. 

Also I thought the last sentence was a bit off, i tried to reframe it

> ![Snapshot of the Chainguard Security Advisories Page](advisories-page.png)

Reviewer: nice screenshot!

You can also find consumable Alpine-style `secdb` security advisory feeds at the following URLs:

> [Wolfi OS repository feed](https://github.com/wolfi-dev/os): https://packages.wolfi.dev/os/security.json

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [Wolfi OS repository](https://github.com/wolfi-dev/os) feed: [packages.wolfi.dev/os/security.json](https://packages.wolfi.dev/os/security.json)
```
This becomes a muddled paragraph without some fancy formatting, I think this would look better but your call

Author: I think I lost the formatting from the Google Doc when I copied it over... thanks for pointing this out!

> Chainguard Enterprise feed: https://packages.cgr.dev/chainguard/security.json 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Chainguard Enterprise feed: [packages.cgr.dev/chainguard/security.json](https://packages.cgr.dev/chainguard/security.json) 

```

> More information regarding these security feeds can be found at our [foundational concepts overview page](https://github.com/chainguard-dev/vulnerability-scanner-support/blob/main/docs/foundational_concepts.md) of our [vulnerability scanner support](https://github.com/chainguard-dev/vulnerability-scanner-support/tree/main) GitHub repository.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can find more information regarding these security feeds at our [foundational concepts overview page](https://github.com/chainguard-dev/vulnerability-scanner-support/blob/main/docs/foundational_concepts.md) in our [vulnerability scanner support](https://github.com/chainguard-dev/vulnerability-scanner-support/tree/main) GitHub repository.
```

wanted to make this sentence a bit more active

If you’re wondering how these security advisories are made, you’re in the right place! In this article, we will walk through the life of a security advisory, starting from a CVE’s disclosure, all the way to its remediation. We’ll also explore what happens after an advisory is released and how its record may be updated over time.

## Stages of a Security Advisory

### Step 1: A CVE is Disclosed

> All security advisories begin with the disclosure of a security vulnerability. The [CVE Project](https://www.cve.org/) coordinates the processing of reported vulnerabilities through a network of CVE Numbering Authorities (CNAs). CNAs assign CVE IDs to new entries, and they are then added to a CVE Catalog. Each catalog entry contains information such as what packages or components are affected by the vulnerability, their versions, and remediation procedures, if applicable. 

Reviewer: OMG, this is an A+ paragraph

### Step 2: Scanners Detect the CVE

The [National Vulnerability Database (NVD)](https://nvd.nist.gov/), the U.S. government vulnerability repository, will pick up these CVE records and review them further. During this secondary review process, the CVE entry is enriched with details that scanners later use to identify affected software. This process can take some time, so there will be issued CVEs that have not yet been analyzed by the NVD. These CVEs pending review will be marked as such by the NVD, as shown in the following image.

![NVD notice stating a vulnerability has not yet been analyzed](nvd-analyze.png)

> In addition to the NVD, other vulnerability databases, such as the [GitHub Advisory Database](https://github.com/advisories) (GHSA) and the [Go Vulnerability Database](https://vuln.go.dev/) are also referenced by vulnerability scanners.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In addition to the NVD, vulnerability scanners will also reference other databases such as the [GitHub Advisory Database](https://github.com/advisories) (GHSA) and the [Go Vulnerability Database](https://vuln.go.dev/).
```

Again, I think activating the sentence makes it read nicer

### Step 3: Advisory is Issued

> Once a CVE has been reviewed by the NVD, it will be picked up by vulnerability scanners and reported in any affected container images. Chainguard uses [Grype](https://github.com/anchore/grype), an open-source vulnerability scanner from Anchore, as its primary tool for vulnerability detection.

Reviewer: > Chainguard uses [Grype](https://github.com/anchore/grype), an open-source vulnerability scanner from Anchore, as its primary tool for vulnerability detection.
huh, i thought we were going to incorporate more scanners eventually. Did you hear anything like that or is this mostly what we use today?

Author: I'm mostly going off of this: https://images.chainguard.dev/security/CVE-2024-41110#:~:text=Advisories%20are%20based%20on%20vulnerability%20information%20provided%20by%20Grype%20from%20Anchore.
since this is what we tell folks
I do recall seeing chatter somewhere that other scanners might be used to enhance detection but I can't readily find where I read it 😥

Reviewer: all good! I was just curious

> The newly detected CVE is then moved into the next phase where it waits for a team member to assess it. A security advisory will be issued with the status of “Under Investigation” to alert downstream users that Chainguard is aware of its presence. Security advisories are issued per package, as one CVE may impact different packages in different ways. This security advisory will be updated over time, as shown in the next step.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The newly detected CVE is then moved into the next phase where it waits for a team member to assess it. A security advisory will be issued with the status of "Under Investigation" to alert downstream users that Chainguard is aware of its presence. Security advisories are issued per package, as one CVE may impact different packages in different ways. From there, this security advisory will be updated over time.
```

These aren't "Steps" like in a procedural tutorial, so it feels a little funky to reference the next step like this. I think this change makes it more of a regular transition sentence.

Also, I think you've got smart (aka "curly") quotes turned on!

### Step 4: Advisory is Updated

> With an advisory issued for the package, further investigation is often needed to determine the impact of the CVE. In some cases, it will be determined that the CVE is not truly present in the package, therefore making it a [false positive vulnerability](/chainguard/chainguard-images/recommended-practices/false-results/). The associated security advisory would have its status updated to “Not Affected”, and further updates to the advisory would not occur.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With an advisory issued for the package, further investigation is often needed to determine the impact of the CVE. In some cases, it will be determined that the CVE is not truly present in the package, therefore making it a [false positive](/chainguard/chainguard-images/recommended-practices/false-results/). The associated security advisory would have its status updated to "Not Affected", and further updates to the advisory would not occur.
```

> If the vulnerability is a true positive finding, then it is present in the package and further action must be taken. When an  upstream fix is available, such as a newer package version which remediates the CVE, then this update will be made, and the advisory modified to state the vulnerability is now “Fixed”. Chainguard may even proactively bump a vulnerable dependency to its newer, patched version before upstream projects have done so themselves. Or, patches issued outside of the upstream repository may be applied to remediate the vulnerability when a new package version is not yet available. Note that an end user would need to pull the new version of the container image with the updated fix for the CVE as older versions of the image would still be vulnerable. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the vulnerability is a true positive finding, then it is present in the package and further action must be taken. When an  upstream fix is available, such as a newer package version which remediates the CVE, then this update will be made and the advisory modified to state the vulnerability is now "Fixed".

Chainguard may even proactively bump a vulnerable dependency to its newer, patched version before upstream projects have done so themselves. Or, patches issued outside of the upstream repository may be applied to remediate the vulnerability when a new package version is not yet available. Note that an end user would need to pull the new version of the container image with the updated fix for the CVE as older versions of the image would still be vulnerable. 
```

Paragraph felt long, breaking it up

> In some cases, a fix for the CVE may not yet be available. A package will be marked as having the “Pending upstream fix” status in this situation. Once an upstream fix is released, then it will be applied to the package, and the advisory status updated to “Fixed”.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In some cases, a fix for the CVE may not yet be available. A package will be marked as having the "Pending upstream fix" status in this situation. Once an upstream fix is released, then it will be applied to the package and the advisory status updated to "Fixed".
```

> Sometimes, a vulnerability may be present in a piece of software, but remediation is not planned. This could be because the package is no longer supported such as in the case of an outdated package version or because the software is reaching the end of its life. If this is the case, then the security advisory status will be marked as “Fix not planned”. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sometimes, a vulnerability may be present in a piece of software, but remediation is not planned. This could be because the package is no longer supported, such as in the case of an outdated package version or because the software is reaching the end of its life. If this is the case, then the security advisory status will be marked as "Fix not planned". 
```

> Rarely, a vulnerability is found in a package, but there is no current status update on whether it can be remediated, or if plans exist to remediate it. In these few situations, the package is simply marked as being “Affected” by the vulnerability. This status is likely to be updated soon as the next steps towards remediation are established.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Rarely, a vulnerability is found in a package but there is no current status update on whether it can be remediated, or if plans exist to remediate it. In these few situations, the package is simply marked as being "Affected" by the vulnerability. This status is likely to be updated soon as the next steps towards remediation are established.
```

![Summary of the vulnerability status types listed on the Chainguard Security Advisories Page](cve-summary.png)

## Further Reading

> Chainguard’s Security Advisory feed is a great tool to have at hand when scanning your containers for the presence of vulnerabilities. Though you won’t need it often thanks to the low CVE counts of our Images, it is a useful reference when working with your scans, giving you insight into how you can approach and fix any vulnerabilities which pop up.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Chainguard’s Security Advisory feed is a helpful tool to have at hand when scanning your containers for the presence of vulnerabilities. Though you won’t need it often thanks to the low CVE counts of our Images, it is a useful reference when working with your scans, giving you insight into how you can approach and fix any vulnerabilities which pop up.
```

The "great" here was just a step too close to Marketing for my taste
